.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Wojciech A. Koszek <wkoszek@FreeBSD.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.Dd August 12, 2009
.Dt NETFPGA 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm netfpga
.Nd "NetFPGA card driver"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
kernel configuration file:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Cd "device netfpga"
.Ed
.Pp
Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
following line in loader.conf:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
netfpga_load="YES"
.Ed
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for NetFPGA card designed at Stanford University and
manufactured by Digilent Inc.
.Pp
NetFPGA PCI card contains reprogrammable Xilinx Virtex-II Pro 50
reprogrammable FPGA processor, 4 Gigabit Ethernet ports handled by Broadcom
BCM5464SR chip, 4.5MB of SRAM, 64MB of DDRAM and 2 SATA connectors.
.Pp
Card can be programmed from the host PC, without a need of any other
hardware tools.
In order to understand NetFPGA functionality, several card's elements
have to be distinguished. Following nomenclature is used within
NetFPGA project:
.Bl -tag -width "CPCI"
.It CPCI 
Xilinx Spartan 2 FPGA processor is responsible for PCI communication.
At boot, this chips reads a bitstream from on-board flash and
provides enough functionality for the device to appear on
the PCI system bus.
.It CNET
Xilinx Virtex-II Pro FPGA processor is the core of the processing
on the board -- it is responsible for communication with CPCI chip
mentioned above, as well as all other board peripherials
.It PHY
Broadcom BCM5464SR chip responsible for Ethernet communication.
The whole communication with PHY chip is handled by CNET chip, and
only partial functionality is redirected.
.El
.Pp
The driver's infrastructure is modular, and has been divided between 2
entities:
.Bl -tag -width "nfc"
.It nfc
The NetFPGA Controller, that will appear as a bus driver to the
system. It detects the card at boot time and provides enough functionality 
to program CNET processor later. It is a provider of /dev/netfpga interface
device as well.
.It nfp
The NetFPGA Port, that will appear only if Ethernet-related bitstream
is programmed on the card.
.El
.Pp
After PC boot sequence, due to several problems with CPCI
default firmware, CPCI chip has to be reprogrammed.
Following steps need to be taken:
.Bl -bullet
.It
In order to program CPCI chip, CNET reprogrammer code 
cpci_reprogrammer.bit bitstream file has to bo programmed to the CNET
chip.
.It
CPCI_VER.bit file has to be programmed to CPCI chip.
.It
FPGA chip can be programmed with a target bitstream.
.El
.Pp
All of those steps can be performed with
.Xr netfpga 8
utility.
Refer to
.Xr netfpga 8
manual page for more details.
.Pp
.Sh  NOTES
The board's schematics and design documents are all available
publicly and are present on NetFPGA Project website.
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
Various PCI registers have to be saved and CPCI firmware is sent to
the board. PCI chip is reset and some register values are lost, thus
we need to restore previously saved values.
NetFPGA support in Linux forces user to run
.Xr dumpregs.sh
and
.Xr loadregs.sh
scripts in order to accomplish this.
FreeBSD
.Nm
driver supports this without user intervention.
.Sh BUGS
It hasn't been confirmed if support for only 1 TX/RX mitigated ring
is actually a limitation.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in FreeBSD 9.0
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "Wojciech A. Koszek" Aq wkoszek@FreeBSD.org
